Q-1. What are the benefits of using CSS?
ANS.There are a number of benefits of CSS, including:
1) Faster Page Speed. More code means slower page speed. ...
2) Better User Experience. CSS not only makes web pages easy on the eye, it also allows for user-friendly formatting. ...
3) Quicker Development Time. ...
4) Easy Formatting Changes. ...
5) Compatibility Across Devices.

Q-2. What are the disadvantages of CSS?
ANS.Disadvantages of CSS
1)Browser Compatibility. CSS may render differently in various web browsers, leading to inconsistencies in the visual presentation. ...
2)Learning Curve. ...
3)Lack of Security. ...
4)Limited Layout Control. ...
5)Performance Impact. ...
6)Overriding Styles. ...
7)Maintenance Challenges.

Q-3. What is the difference between CSS2 and CSS3?
ANS.The biggest difference between CSS2 and CSS3 is that CSS3 has been split into different sections, called modules. 
Each of these modules is making its way through the W3C in various stages of the recommendation process.

Q-4. Name a few CSS style components
ANS.At its most basic level, CSS consists of two components:
Properties: These are human-readable identifiers that indicate which stylistic features you want to modify. For example, font-size , width , background-color .
Values: Each property is assigned a value. This value indicates how to style the property.

Q-5. What do you understand by CSS opacity?
ANS.The opacity CSS property sets the opacity of an element. Opacity is the degree to which content behind an element is hidden, and is the opposite of transparency.

Q-6. How can the background color of an element be changed?
ANS.To add background color in HTML, use the CSS background-color property. 
Set it to the color name or code you want and place it inside a style attribute. 
Then add this style attribute to an HTML element, like a table, heading, div, or span tag.

Q-7. How can image repetition of the backup be controlled?
ANS.This task can be achieved by using the background-repeat property that will help us to control the repetition of the image. 
The background-repeat property in CSS is used to repeat the background image both horizontally and vertically. 
It also decides whether the background image will be repeated or not.

Q-8. What is the use of the background-position property?
ANS.The background-position property sets the starting position of a background image.

Q-9. Which property controls the image scroll in the background?
ANS.The background-attachment property sets whether a background image scrolls with the rest of the page, or is fixed.

Q-10. Why should background and color be used as separate properties?
ANS. The background property is a complex property in CSS, and if it is combined with color, the complexity will further increase.

Q-11. How to center block elements using CSS1?
ANS.To centrally align the block elements, we can simply make use of the <center> tag. All the elements within the <center> tag will be centrally aligned.

Q-12. How to maintain the CSS specifications?
ANS.The CSS specifications are maintained by the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). 
Even though every browser supports CSS, there are many inconsistencies in the supported specification version. 
Some browsers even have their own implementation of the specification and have proprietary (vendor) prefixes.

Q-13. What are the ways to integrate CSS as a web page?
ANS.CSS may be added to HTML in three different ways. 
Inline CSS:To style a single HTML element on the page, use Inline CSS in a style attribute. 
Internal CSS:By adding CSS to the head section of our HTML document, we can embed an internal stylesheet. 
External CSS:We can also connect to an external stylesheet that separates our CSS from our HTML.

Q-14. What is embedded style sheets?
ANS.An embedded style sheet is declared within the <head> element of an XHTML document. 
It applies to the whole document, rather than just one element. Each style declaration (or CSS rule) gets applied to everything in the document that matches that rule.

Q-15. What are the external style sheets?
ANS.An external style sheet is a separate CSS file that can be accessed by creating a link within the head section of the webpage. 
Multiple webpages can use the same link to access the stylesheet. The link to an external style sheet is placed within the head section of the page.

Q-16. What are the advantages and disadvantages of using external style sheets?
ANS.The advantages of External Style Sheets are as follows :
1)With the help of External Style Sheets, the styles of numerous documents can be organized from one single file.
2)In External Style Sheets, Classes can be made for use on numerous HTML element types in many forms of the site.
3)In complex contexts, Methods like selector and grouping can be implemented to apply styles.

The disadvantages of External Style Sheets are as follows :
1)An extra download is essential to import style information for each file.
2)The execution of the file may be deferred till the external style sheet is loaded.
3)While implementing style sheets, we need to test Web pages with multiple browsers in order to check compatibility issues.

Q-17. What is the meaning of the CSS selector?
ANS.A CSS selector is the first part of a CSS Rule. It is a pattern of elements and other terms that tell the browser which HTML elements should be selected to have the CSS property values inside the rule applied to them.

Q-18. What are the media types allowed by CSS?
ANS.|Sr.No. |	Value & Description
    |	1.  |	all:Suitable for all devices.
    | 	2.  |	aural:Intended for speech synthesizers.
    |	3.  |	braille:Intended for braille tactile feedback devices.
    |	4.  |	embossed:Intended for paged braille printers.
    |	5.  |	handheld:Intended for handheld devices (typically small screen, monochrome, limited bandwidth).
    |	6.  |	print:Intended for paged, opaque material and for documents viewed on screen in print preview mode. Please consult the section on paged media.
    |	7.  |	projection:Intended for projected presentations, for example projectors or print to transparencies. Please consult the section on paged media.
    |	8.  |	screen:Intended primarily for color computer screens.
    |	9.  |	tty:Intended for media using a fixed-pitch character grid, such as teletypes, terminals, or portable devices with limited display capabilities.
    |	10. |	tv:Intended for television-type devices.

Q-19. What is the rule set?
ANS.A CSS rule set contains one or more selectors and one or more declarations. 
The selector(s), which in this example is h1 , points to an HTML element. 
The declaration(s), which in this example are color: blue and text-align: center style the element with a property and value.